**Problem 1 -- Mutex approaches**

The following pseudo-code represents an attempt to enforce code-based mutual exclusion in a critical region of code.
```c
void f() {
  /* DISABLE_INTERRUPTS is a generic name for an assembly-level
  instruction that saves the current hardware interrupt mask
  and disables all interrupts */
  existing_mask = DISABLE_INTERRUPTS;
  /* Perform critical region operation */
  ENABLE_INTERRUPTS(existing_mask); /* Restore prev IRQ mask */
}
```

Discuss why is (or why is not) this approach valid for the following situations:

a) user-level code, single-threaded, single CPU

Sure, this works. This process would disable inturrupts during critical code regions, which is enough to prevent issues from occuring in your standard single-threaded single CPU user level code. 

b) user-level code, multi-threaded, single CPU

This really depends on what the critical region is doing. If there are no system calls (or any other reason for the kernel to perform time slicing), than this would be completely fine. However, if there are, than we could be in deep trouble here. Thus, while we could use this depending on the situation, it would not be ideal. 

c) user-level code, multi-threaded, multi-CPU

No OS student should ever be using this code in a multi-threaded multi-CPU process. Disabling inturrupts doesn't do anything to protect the code from race conditions or whatever issues multithreading throws at us, which means this approach would not be valid to use. 

d) kernel-level code, single CPU

Sure, this code works. The kernel is the one performing time slicing, and there is no reason for the kernel to time slice itself. Disabling inturrupts prevents the code from being inturrupted, so the critical region can successfully operate. 

e) kernel-level code, multi-CPU

This code is bad for multithreading, and an OS student should feel bad if they implement it in a multi CPU system. Disabling inturrupts does nothing to alleviate the troubles that come with multiple CPUs. 