**Problem 3 -- A three-command pipeline**

**3a - Writing the Programs**  
wordgen: Generate a series of random potential words, one per line, each with between 3 and nc characters (choose
nc according to taste). If this command has an argument, that is the limit of how many potential words to generate.
Otherwise, if the argument is 0 or missing, generate words in an endless loop. Note: for simplicity, make the words
UPPERCASE.

**OUTPUTS**

```
$ ./wordgen 1000 | wc
Finished generating 1000 candidate words
   1000    1000   14913
```
```
$ time ./wordgen 1000000 >/dev/null
Finished generating 1000000 candidate words

real    0m0.195s
user    0m0.194s
sys     0m0.000s
```
```
$ echo "COMPUTER" | ./wordsearch words.txt
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
COMPUTER
Matched 1 words
```
```
$ time ./wordgen 10000 | ./wordsearch words.txt >/dev/null
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
Finished generating 10000 candidate words
Matched 103 words

real    0m55.559s
user    0m55.289s
sys     0m0.022s
```
pager: This is a primitive version of the more command, and resembles an earlier popular UNIX command pg.
Read from standard input and echo each line to standard output, until 23 lines have been output. Display a message
---Press RETURN for more--- to standard output and then wait for a line of input to be received from the
terminal. The terminal is not standard input in this case. You can open the special file /dev/tty to get the
terminal (open it once at the start of the program). Since the terminal waits until a line of input is received, your
pager program will thus pause until a newline is hit. Continue doing this, in chunks of 23 lines, until either end-offile
is seen on standard input, or the command q (or Q) is received while waiting for the next-page newline.  

**OUTPUTS**
```
$ ./pager <words.txt
a
a'
a-
...
aal
Aalborg
Aalesund
---Press RETURN for more---

aalii
aaliis
aals
...
aardwolf
aardwolves
Aaren
---Press RETURN for more---
q
pager terminated by q command

```
wordsearch: First read in a list of dictionary words, one per line, from a file that is supplied as the command-line
argument. Then read a line at a time from standard input and determine if that potential word matches your word list.
If so, echo the word (including the newline) to standard output, otherwise ignore it. Id est, wordsearch is a filter.
The program continues until end-of-file on standard input. To simplify, you can convert all of the words in your word
list to UPPERCASE. I don’t care how efficiently you search for each candidate word. In fact, part of the point is that
this program is going to be slow and CPU-intensive.

**OUTPUTS**
```
$ ./wordgen 5000 | ./wordsearch words.txt | ./pager
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
Finished generating 5000 candidate words
Matched 48 words
JMP
KIT
JOH
...
BNU
TUB
MGH
---Press RETURN for more---

ODE
VCM
BCH
...
GHI
WJC
TIMO
---Press RETURN for more---

OTE
OGO
```
```
$ ./wordgen | ./wordsearch words.txt | ./pager
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
ETF
DOC
NPT
...
HEM
IOR
PYA
---Press RETURN for more---

FIX
ZZZ
SUB
...
PIM
BNU
FEM
---Press RETURN for more---

LOND
HWM
OFO
...
PDT
PSE
BHD
---Press RETURN for more---
q
*** Pager terminated by q command ***
Matched 74 words
```

**3B - Launcher**  
Now write a program which launches these three programs with the pipeline connecting them as demonstrated. The launcher program takes one argument which is passed directly to wordgen. After launching the three child processes, the launcher program sits and waits for all children to exit, and reports the exit status of each.
```
$ ./launcher
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
NPA
POXY
NTT
...
MAT
OEP
OHS
---Press RETURN for more---

KID
SUG
ATC
...
DELY
JEA
INF
---Press RETURN for more---

VHS
UNP
LCI
...
BAD
EHF
WHS
---Press RETURN for more---
q
*** Pager terminated by q command ***
Child 253864 exited with 0
Matched 75 words
Child 253863 exited with 0
Child 253862 exited with 0
```
```
$ ./launcher 100
Finished generating 100 candidate words
Child 254049 exited with 0
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
UNB
Matched 1 words
Child 254050 exited with 0
Child 254051 exited with 0
```
Note in the second example, there were only 100 candidates and 1 match, so the Press RETURN was never
displayed by pager. Also note the exit status (I didn’t bother to decode it like we did in PS3): In the first example,
both the wordgen and the wordsearch died from a signal #13, which on Linux is the number of SIGPIPE. The reason
for this should be obvious, if not, think about it some more! In the second example, all children exited normally:
wordgen exited after generating 100 words, and wordsearch and pager both exited after seeing EOF on their pipe
inputs.

```
$ ./launcher 100
Finished generating 100 candidate words
Child 249978 exited with 0
Accepted 465120 words, rejected 515456
Matched 2 words
ATR
CCD
Child 249979 exited with 0
Child 249980 exited with 0
```
**Problem 3C -- Add signal handling**  
Now add the following simple feature: when wordsearch terminates, it should report (on stderr) the number of words matched (this feature is already illustrated in the examples above. You can just build it in to begin with). Here’s the problem: when the user terminates pager with the Q command, this will result in a broken pipe the next time wordsearch tries to write to its output. By default, this causes SIGPIPE delivery and wordsearch wouldn’t get a chance to output its helpful message.

Solve this problem by adding a signal handler for SIGPIPE so this message is always displayed. Your solution could involve setjmp too, or you could choose to block SIGPIPE and deal with the EPIPE error.

```c
#include <sys/signal.h>

int matchedwords = 0;

void handler(int s) {
  fprintf(stderr, "Matched %d words\n", matchedwords);
  exit(0);
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
  signal(SIGPIPE, handler);
  // more code ...
  fprintf(stderr, "Matched %d words\n", matchedwords);
  return 0;
}
```

Submission: Submit all 4 program listings (wordgen, wordsearch, pager, launcher) and a screenshot/output paste. Demonstrate both scenarios (wordgen has a finite list and all children exit normally vs wordgen is infinite and the pipeline is terminated by pager). Be reasonable about including pages and pages of repetitive meaningless word lists! You do not need to included intermediate versions, such as the version of wordsearch without the signal
handling.