
**Problem 3 -- Using synchronization primitives to create a shared memory FIFO**
In this programming assignment, you will explore synchronization issues on a simulated multi-processor, shared-
memory environment. We will not use threads-based programming, but instead will create an environment in which
several UNIX processes share a memory region through mmap. Each process represents a parallel processor. In
effect, we are simulating the synchronization issues that an actual kernel would have, but from the relative comfort
and safety of user-land, and also without the debugging complexity which can arise with multi-threaded unix
processes.
Each program will have a global int called my_procnum, starting at 0, which represents the "virtual processor"
number. This is not the same as the pid. It serves a function similar to my_cpuid in the Linux kernel (we’ll see this
in Unit #8). You’ll establish a number of children in each testing framework, setting my_procnum to sequential
numbers as you do so. Having a small sequential index number to identify your task will make it much easier to
code.

**Problem 3B -- Test the spin lock library**
The top count is the "good case" with spinlock enabled, and the bottom is the "bad case" without spinlock enabled. 
```
$ ./test 1000 100000
Final count: 100000000
Expected count: 100000000
Bad Case
Final count: 3591014
Expected count: 100000000
```

**Problem 3D -- Test your FIFO library**
Create a framework for testing your FIFO implementation. Establish a struct fifo in shared memory and create
two virtual processors, one of which will be the writer and the other the reader. Have the writer send a fixed number
of sequentially-numbered data using fifo_wr and have the reader read these and verify that all were received. 


```
$ ./p3
Beginning test with 8 writers, 32768 items each
All streams done
Waiting for writer children to die
Reader Started
Writer 0 completed
Writer 4 completed
Writer 1 completed
Writer 2 completed
Writer 3 completed
Writer 5 completed
Writer 6 completed
Writer 7 completed
Reader stream 0 completed
```
It does work - I have code that checks for "out of order writers", and it does not output anything. 


And now to purposely break something: 
```
$ ./p3
Beginning test with 8 writers, 100 items each
Writer 0 completed
Writer 1 completed
Writer 2 completed
Writer 3 completed
Writer 4 completed
Writer 5 completed
Writer 6 completed
All streams done
Waiting for writer children to die
Reader Started
Writer 7 completed
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 91, got 92
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 92, got 93
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 93, got 94
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 94, got 95
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 95, got 96
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 96, got 97
Read problem: Writer 6 out of sequence. Expected 3, got 5
Read problem: Writer 5 out of sequence. Expected 97, got 99
Read problem: Writer 6 out of sequence. Expected 4, got 7
[...more of the same...]
Read problem: Writer 6 out of sequence. Expected 96, got 99
Read problem: Writer 0 out of sequence. Expected 100, got 0
```

For this, I purposely commented out a spin_unlock step, which caused race conditions, all that fun stuff, and resulted in errors in writing. I notice that the errors ultimately cascade, probably because of how we actually check for errors. 