**Problem 2 -- Signal Counting Program**

If multiple instances of the identical signal are posted to a process before the signal can be delivered, behavior depends on the signal number. For so-called "real time" signals (sig# >=32), as many signal deliveries will happen as there were signals generated. But for conventional signals (sig# < 32), only one instance of the signal will be delivered.

Develop a test program to demonstrate this for one example of a real-time and one example of a non-real-time signal. A suggested structure is to have a parent process which forks multiple children. One child will be the "victim" and will receive the test signals, while multiple sender children will bombard the victim with hundreds of instances of the same signal number. The victim will have a signal handler established (set this up in the parent prior to the fork) and will count the total number of times the handler is invokved. Each sender child exits normally after sending the requested number of signals. The parent waits for all senders to exit, and then sends a different signal number which causes the victim child to report its total number of times the test signal was handled, and then finally exit. 

You can make the signal number to test, the number of sender children, and the number of iterations all command line parameters. Make sure to attach output or screenshots demonstrating the program results.

```
$ ./a.out 60 5 50
Died after 250 stabs.
$ ./a.out 6 5 50
Died after 14 stabs.
```